docs: contributing guide (#511)
exadel-inc/esl: docs/DEVELOPMENT.md

# Development guide

> This section will describe the project structure, and our development guides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the project structure and our development guidelines.
```

  - [Setup the project](#setup-the-project)
  - [Project Stack](#project-stack)
  - [Project Structure](#project-structure)
  - [Project Scripts](#project-scripts)
  - [Project Conventions](#project-conventions)
  - [Make or update a core and utilities](#make-or-update-a-core-and-utilities)
  - [Make or update a component](#make-or-update-a-component)
  - [Update demo pages](#update-demo-pages)
    - [Syntax highlighting for IDE](#syntax-highlighting-for-ide)

## Setup the project

> To start the development you will need Node.js version 10+.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started you will need Node.js version 10+.
```

After cloning the repo, run:
```commandline
npm run start
```
to start development server with watch feature ootb.

You can create prod output assets in any moment using
```commandline
npm run build
```

> To be sure that all validation checks passing before your commit and push your changes,
> please make sure you allow `husky` to set up git hooks for your.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make sure that all checks are passed before you commit and push your changes,
please make sure that you allow `husky` to set up git hooks for you.
```

## Project Stack

> ESL codebase written using TypeScript and LESS CSS-preprocessor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ESL codebase is written using TypeScript and LESS CSS-preprocessor.
```

> ESL use the following tools to keep code base quality

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ESL uses the following tools to keep codebase quality
```

> - ES Lint to lint scripts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ESLint to lint scripts
```

- StyleLint to lint styles
- Jest to run unit tests
- CommitLint to check commit message format

> The 11ty project and webpack are used to build static website for project representation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The 11ty project and webpack are used to build a static website for project representation.
```

The semantic-release project and GitHub actions are used to automate the release process.

## Project Structure

> ESL project consist of the following directories:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ESL project consists of the following directories:
```

        - 📁 category - utilities organized in groups
    - all.ts - bundled esm source
    - lib.ts - global object type definition and activator
    - all.less - bundled source style 
  - [📁 polyfills](../src/polyfills) - small polyfills and shims distributed with the library

- [📁 pages](../pages) - demo site root directory
  - [🔨📁 dist](../pages/dist) - demo site build output directory
  - [📁 src](../pages/src) - demo site common styles and scripts sources
  - [📁 static](../pages/static) - demo site common static assets sources
  - [📁 views](../pages/views) - demo pages templates and 11ty common templates

- [📁 build](../build) - library common build scripts
- [📁 eslint](../eslint) - library es-lint rules configuration
- [📁 .github](../.github) - library repository configuration and documentation

- [🔨📁 modules](../modules) - library core esm build output
- [🔨📁 polyfills](../polyfills) - library polyfills esm build output

## Project Scripts

- `npm start` or `npm run start` - start demo server locally.
  Runs local build, watch and BrowserSync.
  Uses `:3005` port by default.

- `npm run clean` - clear output folders
- `npm run build` - build project to ESM output

> - `npm run build-pages` - build project autogenerated GitHub Pages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `npm run build-pages` - build project auto-generated GitHub Pages
```

- `npm test` or `npm run test` - run linters and tests (silent task, used in CI/CD)
- `npm run lint` - run linting
- `npm run test:unit` - run all tests
- `npm run test:report` - run tests and create coverage report

## Project Conventions

ESL project uses some special JS community agreements and name conventions.

> To fix and track such agreements the [Code Conventions](CODE_CONVENTIONS.md) document created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To fix and track such agreements the [Code Conventions](CODE_CONVENTIONS.md) document was created.
```
